# General Procedure

A common method of parameterization is to empirically fit a set of observable properties in a trial-and-error manner. Because the number of adjustable parameters is usually small, a common problem in the empirical method is under fit, the parameters work well for the targeted properties, but fail to predict properties outside of the scope. The solution is try to fit as many properties as possible so that the parameters are likely to be transferrable. This method has been used for developing general forcefields for common small molecules,41-44 and it is still very useful for deriving nonbond parameters9,10,16,23. However, for general parameterization purposes, it is practically infeasible.  
To fit hundreds or even thousands parameters is possible by using QM calculations to generate large number of data.17-23,43,45 In one sense, the “observable” properties such as bond lengths, angles and vibrational frequencies, can be obtained by QM calculations. A fundamental approach is to fit the potential energy surfaces in terms of energies, the first and second derivatives of energies of different configurations or conformations. By adjusting the parameters to fit the potential energy surfaces, the resulting forcefield can be used to predict the “observable” properties and the parameters are naturally transferrable. 
However, to fit the potential energy surfaces is a difficult task. One cause is the empirical functions used in forcefield, are often inadequate to accurately describe the complex energy surfaces; another problem is incomplete sampling of the potential energy surfaces, which results in a very small region; the third reason is that the number of parameters may be too many due to use of redundant internal coordinates, therefore, over-fit could be a problem. 


SYSTEMATIC PROCEDURE
Forcefield parameters can be divided into three general parts: charge parameters (electrostatics), valence bond parameters, and van der Waals (VDW) parameters. The combination of electrostatics and VDW terms are also called non-valence or non-bond energies because they described interactions between atoms that are not directly bonded. Because all three parts are coupled, it difficult to fit them simultaneously. A practical method is to fit these three parts iteratively until all parameters converge, as illustrated in the following chart:
 
As shown in the figure, charge and valence terms are derived based on QM data, and VDW parameters are derived from experimental data. Data is calculated or obtained for a set of molecules called the training set. In the following sections, we will explain how to collect a training set, prepare QM and experimental data, and make initial parameters, as well as how to derive charge, valence and VDW parameters.
